[Music]
good morning welcome to breakfast with
dan walker and louise mentioned
headlines for you at six o'clock this
morning more support for jobs and
businesses
as the chancellor promises to do
whatever it takes in today's budget to
help people through the coronavirus
crisis
good morning that's right an extension
of furlough more self-employed support
but i'm here
in the northeast where people want to
know if benefits will be caught who'll
be paying more tax
and is the government serious about
investing in the north
nicolas sturgeon's to face a hollyrood
inquiry today as she comes under
mounting pressure to resign
over the way she handled the alex
salmond harassment allegations
good morning they left it late against
wolves but the unbeaten run continues
manchester city have 21 consecutive wins
in all competitions
just five short of iaxi's european
record
vaccine vaccine vaccine vaccine
i'm begging of you please don't hesitate
a dose of her own medicine dolly parton
receives the coronavirus vaccine she
helped to fund
good morning today like yesterday is
going to be another day with a lot of
low cloud
some mist and some fog there will be
some brightness in
parts of the west we've also got showers
coming in across southern areas
i'll have the lot in about 10 minutes
[Music]
good morning it's wednesday it's the 3rd
of march the top story for you this
morning is that the chancellor rishi
sunak will deliver his budget later
today with the promise to continue to
support
businesses through what he's describing
as the challenging months ahead
the measures include extending the
furlough scheme until the end of
september and more support for the
self-employed but he'll also warn that
once the coronavirus crisis is over
action will be needed to fix the public
finances
here's our political correspondent helen
cat so
this is the budget it'll certainly be a
budget like no
other so much has changed beyond
recognition since this time last year
even if the red book looks the same
hi everybody i'm david the head chef for
the portrait honestly
the pandemic forced david to swap the
restaurant kitchen in nottinghamshire
where he's head chef
for his own from where he's been
teaching families to cook cheaply
he's one of the millions who've been
furloughed
it's been tough like i said without it
people wouldn't be
i definitely wouldn't have been able to
pay my bills and
then there's potential for losing your
house and getting in a lot of trouble
and
mentally as well would be really really
tough
in today's budget the furlough scheme
will be extended until the end of
september
grants for the self-employed will be
extended too and 600 000 more people may
be eligible to claim them
and it's expected the 20-pound increase
in universal credit will stay for six
months
that will all add many more billions to
the almost 300 billion the government
has already spent on the pandemic
and as this treasury video suggests it
won't stop there
with many entertainment venues set to
stay shut until at least may
the budget will allocate 408 million
pounds for museums
theatres and galleries and 300 million
to help sport recover
there'll be 25 million pounds for
grassroots football
and nearly 3 million for a bid to host
the 2030 world cup
there will also be a 150 million pound
fund to help communities take over
struggling local pubs
to fund its schemes to keep the economy
afloat and pay for the pandemic the
government has borrowed
a lot more than ever outside wartime
rishi sunak has promised he will be
honest about plans to fix the public
finances
the chancellor's also been considering
increasing the tax that companies pay on
their profits
corporation tax and levying a one-off
windfall tax on firms like supermarkets
which have done particularly well
for now the focus is on recovery but
there will be a bill to be paid
eventually
we'll find out later how far this budget
will go towards telling us how
helen katt bbc news westminster
scotland's first minister nicolas
sturgeon is preparing to give evidence
to a hollywood inquiry this morning it's
investigating the scottish government's
mishandling of complaints against her
predecessor
alex sammons last night the scottish
conservative said they planned to submit
a vote of no confidence in the first
minister
our scotland correspondent lorna gordon
has the story
nicholas sturgeon is just weeks from a
hollywood election
her party is riding high in the polls
and wants to hold another referendum on
independence
but could her government's handling of
harassment complaints against her once
close ally alex salmond
threatened to upset those plans
last week he gave evidence to the
hollywood committee looking into the
government's actions
i swear by almighty god that i'll tell
the truth the whole truth
and nothing but the truth mr salmond
convinced miss sturgeon
broke the rules ministers have to follow
i've got no doubt that nicola has broken
the ministerial code
but it's not for me to suggest the
concept what the consequences should be
it's for the people are judging that
including this committee
now it's the first minister's turn to
appear nicola sturgeon is likely to face
questions on what she knew and when
about harassment complaints against her
predecessor
and whether she and those around her
have been telling the truth
about the botched investigation into mr
salmond
miss sturgeon has denied all the
allegations and has accused mr salmond
of creating an alternative reality
this though is a crisis for the first
minister and the government she leads
while the hollywood committee's remit is
primarily about failings in government
procedures
there is also a second inquiry into
whether or not miss sturgeon misled
parliament
and so broke the ministerial code there
is now clear
corroboration that nuclear surgeons like
to farm and we have lost first ministers
in scotland for far less
she is accused and there is a huge
amount of evidence now that she has
misplayed parliament and misled the
people of scotland
well that is naked opportunism from the
scottish
tories they haven't heard of course the
first minister's evidence and they've
decided
that she's misled parliament they
haven't waited
for the independent investigation into
the ministerial code and decided already
that she has breached it so they aren't
interested in listening to the facts
the nationalist movement's two most
prominent figures trading public blows
fighting for their reputations and
legacy lorna gordon
bbc news the isle of man has gone back
into lockdown today because of a sharp
rise in coronavirus cases after a ferry
crew member
tested positive for the virus the
circuit breaker restrictions
will last for at least three weeks with
people required to stay at home
non-essential businesses order to close
and schools shut to most pupils
the move comes after more than 60 new
cases of kovid were recorded in a
fortnight
the organizers of this year's eurovision
song contest have said they
are planning to make it the most normal
event they can
it's due to take place in rotterdam in
may after being postponed last year
because of the pandemic officials say
they expect all contestants to appear
live
and coming to the city to perform will
be considered essential travel
they've yet to make a decision on
whether there'll be an audience in the
arena
dolly parton is the latest celebrity to
encourage people to get vaccinated by
sharing the moment on social media i
think you will be singing this
all day um she got the medana jab which
she partly funded and of course
celebrated
how she knows best our los angeles
correspondent david willis
has that story well hey it's me
i'm finally going to get my vaccine i'm
so excited
i've been waiting a while i'm old enough
to get it and i'm smart enough to get it
for the nine to five star it was to be
literally
a dose of her own medicine a shot of the
moderna vaccine whose development she
helped fund
by way of a million dollar donation to a
research center in her native tennessee
vaccine vaccine vaccine vaccine
i'm begging of you please don't hesitate
because once you're dead then that's a
bit too late
i know i'm trying to be funny now but
i'm dead serious
about the vaccine as well as the moderna
and pfizer vaccines regulators here have
also approved the use of one made by
johnson and johnson a single shot
vaccine that's
easier to handle and which the president
says
will advance the timetable for getting
things back to normal
this country will have enough vaccine
supply i'll say it again
for every adult in america by the end of
may
by the end of may that's progress
important progress that's two months
earlier than previously expected
president biden said priority would be
given to teachers
in an attempt to get schools reopened as
quickly as possible
despite a steady decline in new cases of
the virus
he's urging people to continue wearing
masks and social distancing
but that call's been ignored by
officials in one of the country's
largest states texas who've announced
plans to reopen
everything next week and lift a mandate
on mask wearing
here i go all right dolly parton got her
shot from a doctor she met eight years
ago following a car crash
it was their friendship that led to her
decision to donate to vaccine research
addressing the country's covet deniers
she said she hoped her actions
would inspire anyone who is eligible to
get a jab
i think you got it i got it okay i
didn't hurt
just stung a little bit but that was
from the alcohol pad i think yeah
right david willis bbc news los angeles
you've already been singing that all
morning aren't you i i feel so lucky to
have once met
dolly parton and honestly it's gonna
i have actually there's not many
pictures of people have on my wall but
dolly parton is there was that for this
it was for this actual program yeah
[Music]
anyway
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full story with bbc
dot co dot uk forward slash news follow
the story for all the latest with bbc
news